it was a pitch dark night and we were
out for a walk
suddenly a bright white light came from
the train tracks
it was getting closer and closer before
it reached the woods
and suddenly faded away in the distance
this story told by hundreds of witnesses
sounds quite normal
until you find out those train tracks
have long been abandoned
and torn out the last train that could
have been the source of light
had departed many years ago
the mysterious ghost train became the
main site of st
louis a little village in the canadian
province of saskatchewan
there are just around 400 people living
there and hundreds visited
to see the st louis light it was
featured in books
and online and was on tv shows like
unsolved mysteries
for decades no one could explain what it
really was
some people spotted a white light others
said they'd seen a red one
an urban legend explained the red light
was a lantern
carried by a ghost of a train conductor
who had lost his life one night
examining the tracks scientists
tried to debunk both ghost involving
theories but
failed then two high school students
from northern saskatchewan
decided to jump in they first witnessed
the ghost train on a road trip to st
louis one of the girls said it must have
been car headlights but she needed
evidence to prove that
together with her friend she decided to
find an answer
and make it their science fair project
they made several field trips to st
louis for research the young
ghostbusters used a detailed map
a compass and a gps system which was
pretty rare back in 2001
the girls found the location from where
the ghost light was seen
best of all then they drew a straight
line on the map to where the light was
coming from
and marked all roads next to or on the
line
one of the girl's father agreed to help
them he parked his car at various
locations near the lines
and flashed his headlights the girls
didn't see them
as all the places seemed to be too low
finally they found a short hilltop
highway stretch
for 20 minutes the dad was flashing his
lights on and off
and every time the lights went on the
girls could spot
the ghost train when he turned the car
around they saw the mysterious red light
as well
the spot was rather far away from the
track so
it was possible to see it thanks to
diffraction
the light passed through a little
opening maybe the trees
and became larger the smart girls
received gold medals at the science fair
for their project
ten years later a similar story happened
in anson texas
each night the locals noticed a
mysterious light at one spot of the
highway
they called it anson light and believed
it was a mother with a lantern searching
for her son
he'd disappeared in a snowstorm a long
time ago
his mom went looking for him and never
came back either
a group of students didn't believe in
this beautiful story and decided to find
the source of light with their iphones
they followed google maps down the dirt
road to a highway
that they thought to be the light source
halfway to the light
it was already clear it was really
coming from cars
and not a mother with a lantern
it's easy to be a ghostbuster outside
with your friends
but what if you had a ghost in your own
home
this is what happened to a family who
moved into an old house in 1921.
the house was huge with gas lights no
electricity
and many passageways just a classic
movie haunted house
one morning the lady who went down in
record says mrs h
heard footsteps over her head when she
was home alone
she rushed upstairs and found an empty
room
she checked every room and also looked
one floor up
it was all empty then
she started hearing strange noises when
she was in bed at night
it sounded like someone was moving
furniture and china
and sighed in the silence whatever was
haunting the family
was getting braver and braver it
followed them along the halls
it felt like it was about to approach
them and come into contact
one of the children of mrs h once ran
into her room
and asked why she was calling him she
said it must have been the wind
but the child was positive it was
someone's voice
the plants didn't live long in that
house
finally the scariest thing happened mrs
h woke up one night
and clearly saw a man and a woman in her
room
she had to stop it all somehow so she
asked her brother-in-law for help
he did his research and suggested it
could be a carbon monoxide leak
this colorless odorless and tasteless
gas
had caused similar visions in other
people
when they checked the gas they found the
gas was coming out of the furnace
and into the room instead of going out
through the chimney
it gave the family headaches
hallucinations dizziness
and other unpleasant symptoms
some ghosts leave fingerprints behind or
so says the san antonio legend
according to it in 1938 a school bus was
driving through a rough snowstorm
and got stuck on the train tracks when
the train crew
saw the bus they did their best to stop
but it was impossible to avoid the
collision
no one in the bus had survived in that
accident
and ever since the ghosts of those
people are protecting
others from the same fate hundreds of
people have visited the spot ever since
to play with destiny they leave the car
in neutral
on so-called ghost tracks and wait for
the ghosts to come and help them out
some people put baby powder on their
cars to have fingerprints as evidence
and they do see the fingerprints once
they get out of the car
turns out there's a logical explanation
for this one as well
there's an incline on the tracks so when
the car moves a bit
you can see your own fingerprints in
baby powder
and the original story that inspired the
legend didn't even happen in san antonio
but in salt lake city utah something
unexplainable was happening
on the campus of coventry university in
england
whoever visited the 14th century cellar
ran
out of it in fear they said they'd seen
a ghost of a woman
one lecturer at the school who was also
a part-time ghostbuster
decided to debunk the mystery he was
once working at his lab
when he felt the presence of someone
else he was brave enough to do research
in the cellar
and found out the reason for all this
madness
was what he called the fear frequency
the levels of sound frequency in the
cellar were so high
that they made people see optical
illusions feel anxiety
and get chills down the spine a similar
effect
makes you hear humming of a glass when
you're running a damp finger on it
a small village of kalachi in kazakhstan
has become home to a unique mysterious
sickness
nicknamed the sleep hollow back in 2013
the first villagers got affected by it
they were doing their regular routine
biking going to work or chatting with
friends when suddenly
they'd fall asleep it all looked similar
slurred speech lightheadedness and then
boom
some of them only woke up after six days
of loud snoring
and when they did they didn't remember
anything that happened to them
and experienced weakness and headaches
the sleeping beauty-style sickness
affected people of all ages
including kids and even a cat named
marquis
its owner said the cat started attacking
walls furniture
and the family dog then it dozed off
and was snoring like a human for hours
more than 150 people got the sleep
hollow
in three years doctors and sleep
disorder experts
struggled to find a solution a lot of
people blamed possible radiation
from nearby uranium mines kazakhstan's
doctors checked over 7 000 homes
but found the radiation levels weren't
high enough to cause it
they also checked water supply in the
area for heavy metals and bacteria
and it was all right as well then
the former head of the uranium mine
suggested the gas
was seeping through the ground
scientists tested this theory
and it turned out to be the answer the
dangerous gas was in the air and it took
down the amount of oxygen
making people fall asleep families
started moving out
one by one from that sleepy hollow as
soon as the mystery had been solved